# CREHDYS
Repository for the hydrological model CREHDYS: fortran codes, model executable, inputs generation, etc.

------------- THE CREHDYS MODEL ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the GitHub repository for the CREHDYS model, the Continuous Runoff and Erosion Hillslope model with DYnamic Surface properties.

The model was initially developed by Eric Laloy and Charles Bielders, and used for hydrological modeling in maize under various cover crop management. For more information, please see:
	Laloy & Bielders (2008) : 10.1016/j.jhydrol.2007.11.033.
	Laloy & Bielders (2009a) : 10.1111/j.1365-2389.2009.01187.x
	Laloy & Bielders (2009b) : 10.1111/j.1365-2389.2009.01190.x
	Laloy et al. (2010) : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2009.10.025
	Laloy (2010) : http://hdl.handle.net/2078.1/32572

The latest version is now CREHDYS v4.0. Compared to the original version, multiple minor corrections and adjustments were made by Timothée Clement. It was recently used for hydrological modeling in maize crop under strip-tillage or micro-basin tillage. For more information, pease see:
	Clement (2024) : http://hdl.handle.net/2078.1/299341
	Clement et al. (2025, revised manuscript submitted for publication)
	Clement & Bielders (in prep.)


------------ CONTENT OF THIS REPOSITORY --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- "CREHDYS_v4.0.exe" - The model's Windows executable file

- "CREHDYS_RUN.py" - An exemple of Python main script for generating inputs, running the model, and visualizing main daily outputs.

- "input_prep.py" - A python script containing functions for input generation, which are imported in the main script (CREHDYS_RUN.py)

- "gen.inp", "parameros.inp", "paramhyd.inp", "plot.inp", "theta.inp" - Input files read by the model's executable

- "Ittre 2022 daily weather.xlsx" and "Ittre 2022 event rain.xlsx" - Sample Excel files for weather-related "pre-inputs", i.e., used for ultimate input generation through "input_prep.py". These contain weather data for the 2022 cropping season recorded at the "Ittre" trial site, as described in Clement et al. (2025).

- "crop.out", "daily.out", "dailyRE.out", "eventE.out", "eventR.out" - Output files generated by the model

- "ReadMe_inp_out.txt" - An exhaustive guide to the input and output files content.

- "CREHDYS flowchart & processes.pdf" - A diagram of the model computation methods.

- "CREHDYS versions" - A folder with Fortran codes for successive CREHDYS versions and a tracking of updates, also including recommended instructions for compilation.

